Topology is the way in which constituent parts are interrelated or arranged.

One of the examples of a topology is a LAN that we have created earlier .
This type of topology comes under network topology.

Network topology is the arrangement of elements of a communication network. All the devices which receive and send data are part of this topology.

a) Physical topology which includes the placement of the various types of components such as devices and cable installations. 

b) Logical topology illustrates how the data flows in a network.

bus topology that it
broadcasts the packets to all the connected devices. So
the packets got sent to PC1 even when it was not the
receiver.
When the same amount of packets return back to the
sender we know that the connection is proper and strong
and there is no data/packet loss

The packets also got sent to
the PC1 where it was not
supposed to go.
The packets also took the
same path backwards as it
took while travelling from
sender to receiver .
————————————————————————————

From the name we can
understand that the shape /
structure of this topology
would be circular i.e it would
be connected at all ends in
a circle

The node that receives the message from
previous computer will retransmit to the next node.
The data flows only in one direction i.e it’s unidirectional.
The data in the ring topology flows in a clockwise direction

The most common access method of the ring topology is
token passing.
● Token passing: It is a network access method in
which a token is passed from one node to another
node.
● Token: It is a frame that circulates around the
network. It contains the packets/data and the
address of the receiver


This token is passed from computer to computer until it
reaches the destination. The sender modifies the token by
putting the address along with the data.The data is passed
from one device to another device until the destination
address matches. Once the token is received by the
destination device, then it sends the acknowledgment to
the sender.
