In Computer Network ,there are various ways through which different components are connected to one another.
Network Topology is the way that defines the structure, and how these components are connected to each other.


Types of Network Topology

The arrangement of a network that comprises nodes and connecting lines via sender and receiver is referred to as Network Topology. The various network topologies are:

    Point to Point Topology
    Mesh Topology
    Star Topology
    Bus Topology
    Ring Topology
    Tree Topology
    Hybrid Topology
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bus Topology

Bus Topology is a network type in which every computer and network device is connected to a single cable.
It is bi-directional. It is a multi-point connection and a non-robust topology because if the backbone fails the topology crashes.
In Bus Topology, various MAC (Media Access Control) protocols are followed by LAN ethernet connections like TDMA,
Pure Aloha, CDMA, Slotted Aloha, etc.


A bus topology with shared backbone cable. The nodes are connected to the channel via drop lines. 

Advantages of Bus Topology

    If N devices are connected to each other in a bus topology, then the number of cables required to connect them is 1, 
    known as backbone cable, and N drop lines are required.
    
Coaxial or twisted pair cables are mainly used in bus-based networks that support up to 10 Mbps.

    The cost of the cable is less compared to other topologies, but it is used to build small networks.

    Bus topology is familiar technology as installation and troubleshooting techniques are well known.

    CSMA is the most common method for this type of topology.

---------------------------------------
Drawbacks of  Bus Topology

    A bus topology is quite simpler, but still, it requires a lot of cabling.

    If the common cable fails, then the whole system will crash down.

    If the network traffic is heavy, it increases collisions in the network. To avoid this, 
    various protocols are used in the MAC layer known as Pure Aloha, Slotted Aloha, CSMA/CD, etc.

    Adding new devices to the network would slow down networks.
    Security is very low.

A common example of bus topology is the Ethernet LAN, where all devices are connected to a single coaxial cable or twisted pair cable.
This topology is also used incable television networks. For more, refer to the Advantages and Disadvantages of Bus Topology.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ring Topology

In a Ring Topology, it forms a ring connecting devices with exactly two neighboring devices.
A number of repeaters are used for Ring topology with a large number of nodes, because if someone wants to send some data 
to the last node in the ring topology with 100 nodes, then the data will have to pass through 99 nodes to reach the 100th node.
Hence to prevent data loss repeaters are used in the network.

The data flows in one direction, i.e. it is unidirectional, but it can be made bidirectional 
by having 2 connections between each Network Node, it is called Dual Ring Topology. In-Ring Topology,
the Token Ring Passing protocol is used by the workstations to transmit the data.

The most common access method of ring topology is token passing.

    Token passing: It is a network access method in which a token is passed from one node to another node.
    Token: It is a frame that circulates around the network.


Advantages of Ring Topology

    The data transmission is high-speed.
    The possibility of collision is minimum in this type of topology.
    Cheap to install and expand.
    It is less costly than a star topology.

Drawbacks of Ring Topology

    The failure of a single node in the network can cause the entire network to fail.
    Troubleshooting is difficult in this topology.
    The addition of stations in between or the removal of stations can disturb the whole topology.
    Less secure. 
------------------------------------------------------------
